chore(blog): add blog post about the AsyncAPI Bounty Program (#3161)
asyncapi/website: markdown/blog/asyncapi-bounty-program-2024.md

During one year of existence of the [AsyncAPI Bounty Program](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/?pane=info):

- 32 GitHub issues were resolved, [16 of which](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?filterQuery=-no%3Alevel+-round%3A%22bounty%2F2023-pilot%22&sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=77803059&sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=advanced) had complexity level `Advanced`;

- [50+ PRs](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=78904519&filterQuery=no%3Aresponsible+-round%3A%22bounty%2F2023-pilot%22+) were merged in total;

- [8000+ USD](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi/expenses?limit=30&tag=bounty&period=2023-09-30T21%3A00%3A00.000Z%E2%86%92all&collectiveSlug=asyncapi&status=PAID) were paid out as rewards.

### Benefits for FOSS Community
- At least [one issue](https://github.com/springwolf/springwolf-core/issues/820#issuecomment-2257879523) was closed in a third-party project due to a fixed bug in AsyncAPI's software.

### Benefits for AsyncAPI GitHub Organization

> Thanks to the Bounty Program Participants AsyncAPI got:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the Bounty Program Participants, AsyncAPI got:
```

- Saving of costs on DigitalOcean ([Ashish Padhy](https://github.com/shurtu-gal)): AsyncAPI was running out of credits too fast, and with [proper deployment changes](https://github.com/asyncapi/server-api/issues/317), it's not the case anymore.

- GitHub Action refactored from scratch to use CLI ([Ashish Padhy](https://github.com/shurtu-gal)): Simplification is always a driver for innovation. Now official GitHub Action from AsyncAPI supports not only AsyncAPI Generator but also 1:1 all features from the CLI.

- Not just any but AMAZING [cheat sheet poster](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/issues/425#issuecomment-2121214509) ([Aishat Muibudeen](https://github.com/Mayaleeeee)): It is not only available [for download](https://asyncapi.com/cheatsheet), but is also used at AsyncAPI conferences.

> ![](/img/posts/bounty-program/362263381-acc75432-0f58-4c96-a65f-f172d34ee4ec.png)

Reviewer 2: sorry, I recommended to use this photo but it is as large as 3.29 MB 😨 

please squoosh it below 1MB - https://squoosh.app/ - it doesn't have to be large picture

Author: Resized to 132 kB.

### Benefits for AsyncAPI Maintainers

> The Bounty Program gives AsyncAPI Maintainers possibility:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Bounty Program gives AsyncAPI Maintainers the possibility:
```

- To announce a financial reward for GitHub issues that are currently in demand by the maintained project or the AsyncAPI Initiative as a whole, on which AsyncAPI Maintainers can either work and get rewarded themselves or delegate those issues to regular contributors who have more time and/or the necessary expertise.

### Benefits for Bounty Program Participants

Typical benefits of the Bounty Program for its Participants who are in the early stages of their career are:

- Development of a better approach to the evaluation of issues (it's fun reading messages from two months ago saying, '1-2 weeks left'.)

- First/differing working experience (fully asynchronous distributed teams are still rare, unlike partially asynchronous distributed ones.)

- Development of the possibility to showcase to the potential employer real-world work not obscured by an NDA.

With all that said, join a finally sure way to directly sponsor (and get rewarded for) FOSS development.

> Giggly thing as a finishing touch: [PR](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/3111/files) for a bug due to which several lines were output incorrectly to the frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Giggly thing as a finishing touch: [PR](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/3111/files) for a bug due to which several lines were output incorrectly to the front end.
```

    byline: Bounty Program Coordinator
excerpt: 'AsyncAPI Bounty Program'
featured: true
---

## AsyncAPI Bounty Program

Since ancient times sponsors furiously wanted to support Open Source. AsyncAPI addressed that need.

During one year of existence of the [AsyncAPI Bounty Program](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/?pane=info):

- 32 GitHub issues were resolved, [16 of which](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?filterQuery=-no%3Alevel+-round%3A%22bounty%2F2023-pilot%22&sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=77803059&sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=advanced) had complexity level `Advanced`;

- [50+ PRs](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=78904519&filterQuery=no%3Aresponsible) were merged in total;

- [8000+ USD](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi/expenses?limit=30&tag=bounty&period=2023-09-30T21%3A00%3A00.000Z%E2%86%92all&collectiveSlug=asyncapi&status=PAID) were paid out as rewards.

### Benefits for FOSS Community
- at least [one issue](https://github.com/springwolf/springwolf-core/issues/820) was closed in a third-party project due to a fixed bug in AsyncAPI's software.

### Benefits for AsyncAPI GitHub Organization

> Thanks to the Bounty Program Participants AsyncAPI got:
> 
> - [TSC work automation](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=78904519&sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=community%231093&filterQuery=) ([Aayush Saini](https://github.com/AayushSaini101));
> 
> - new monorepo setup in [generator](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?filterQuery=&sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=78904519&sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=generator%231044) and [parser-js](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?filterQuery=&sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=78904519&sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=parser-js%23963) ([Ayush Nautiyal](https://github.com/ayushnau));
> 
> - saving of resources on DigitalOcean ([Ashish Padhy](https://github.com/shurtu-gal)); **(need a link)**
> 
> - GitHub Action refactored from scratch to use CLI ([Ashish Padhy](https://github.com/shurtu-gal)); **(need a link)**
> 
> - not just any but AMAZING [cheat sheet poster](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/issues/425#issuecomment-2121214509) ([Aishat Muibudeen](https://github.com/Mayaleeeee)) which is now used as a printout at conferences where AsyncAPI is hosted, as well as a giveaway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks to the Bounty Program, among many other project, AsyncAPI got:

- [Automation in Technical Steering Committee voting process](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=78904519&sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=community%231093&filterQuery=) ([Aayush Saini](https://github.com/AayushSaini101)): We have new automation and a [process around voting](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/voting.md) and also [transparent summaries](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/TSC_VOTING_OVERVIEW.md) of each voting activity.

- New monorepo setup in [generator](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?filterQuery=&sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=78904519&sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=generator%231044) and [parser-js](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36/views/4?filterQuery=&sliceBy%5BcolumnId%5D=78904519&sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=parser-js%23963) ([Ayush Nautiyal](https://github.com/ayushnau)): Consolidating smaller repositories into these two larger projects will help unify the currently dispersed community within our organization, fostering collaboration in a single location and accelerating development.

- Saving of costs on DigitalOcean ([Ashish Padhy](https://github.com/shurtu-gal)): We were running out of credits too fast and with [proper deployment changes](https://github.com/asyncapi/server-api/issues/317) it's not the case anymore.

- GitHub Action refactored from scratch to use CLI ([Ashish Padhy](https://github.com/shurtu-gal)): Simplification is always a driver for innovation. Now official GitHub Action from AsyncAPI is not only supporting AsyncAPI Generator but 1:1 all features from CLI.

- Not just any but AMAZING [cheat sheet poster](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/issues/425#issuecomment-2121214509) ([Aishat Muibudeen](https://github.com/Mayaleeeee)): It is not only available [for download](https://asyncapi.com/cheatsheet) but also used at AsyncAPI conferences.
```

this image could be included in last item
![Screenshot 2024-08-28 at 13 31 41](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/acc75432-0f58-4c96-a65f-f172d34ee4ec)

Author: While I have nothing against `362263381-acc75432-0f58-4c96-a65f-f172d34ee4ec.png` filename, maybe it should be named something more meaningful?

### Benefits for AsyncAPI Maintainers

The Bounty Program gives AsyncAPI Maintainers possibility:

- to announce a financial reward for GitHub issues that are currently in demand by the maintained project or the AsyncAPI Initiative in general, on which AsyncAPI Maintainers can either work themselves or delegate those to contributors who have more time and/or required expertise;

> -

Reviewer 2: maybe also that with bounty they can show also that the project is actively maintained?

-

### Benefits for Bounty Program Participants
Usual benefits of the Bounty Program for its Participants who just start their career journey are:

- development of a better approach to the evaluation of issues (it's fun reading messages from two months ago saying, '1-2 weeks left');

- first/differing working experience (fully asynchronous distributed teams are still rare, unlike partially asynchronous distributed ones);

- development of the possibility to showcase to the potential employer real-world work not obscured by an NDA.

> ### Success Stories

Reviewer 2: aren't benefits the same? or you mean some personal success stories? but I don't think that this was the goal of bounty program?

Author: I wrote this section when I was writing the skeleton of the article. It didn't come in handy, so removed.
